# Assignment 5

## Problems

1.  ### Tic-Tac-Toe

    Write a program that looks at a list of lists representing a
    Tic-Tac-Toe game, determines if someone has won, and if so says who.
    (You can assume the game state has arisen in the course of a legal
    game).

    Embed your code in the file [a5p1kate.py](90_a5p1kate.py)

2.  ### Dedup

    Write a program that removes duplicate values from a list, i.e. if
    the list starts out as `[4, 2, 5, 2, 4]`, then after your code
    fragment runs it should be `[4, 2, 5]`.

    Embed your code in the file [a5p2kate.py](90_a5p2kate.py)

    (A real-life application would be to remove duplicates from a list
    of IP addresses so you have a list of unique visitors to your site.
    In this case the list might look like `[ '10.9.0.31',
    '199.247.52.3', '10.9.0.31', '43.98.12.4', '72.1.3.55',
    '199.247.52.3', ...]`).

3.  ### Poker Full House

    Write a program that decides if a list of card numbers is a full
    house. A full house is a hand in which 3 cards share one face value
    and the other two share a different face value, e.g. three sevens
    and two aces. For example the list `[6, 32, 39, 0, 45]` is a full
    house because cards 6, 32 and 45 are sevens and cards 39 and 0 are
    aces. (See
    [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_poker_hands) for
    more examples).

    Use the first representation shown in the module notes, i.e. the one
    in [Representing Playing
    Cards](08-representing-playing-cards.md).

    Do not remove your test values from the program so I can see how
    thoroughly you tested your code. Feel free to adapt one of the test
    frameworks from the problems above to help you in testing your code.

4.  ### Password checker

    Most computer systems require the user to select a password.
    Unfortunately many users, perhaps most, choose poor passwords, i.e.
    passwords that are easily guessed, or that can be looked up in a
    dictionary. Weak passwords present security problems because they
    compromise the integrity of the system. To avoid weak passwords many
    systems now test the password the user types, and decide whether to
    accept it or not. Here is an (abbreviated) excerpt from a manual
    describing the process on one actual system (where the name of the
    password program is `passwd`). Think of this as the specification
    for your program and try to implement it as precisely as possible
    (if you detect ambiguities in it be sure to ask for clarification).

    When used to change a password, passwd prompts everyone  for
    their  old  password,  if  any.  It then prompts for the new
    password twice.  If the two copies are not identical the
    cycle of prompting for the new password is repeated for at
    most two more times.
    When the two copies are identical a check is made to ensure
    that the new  password meets construction requirements.
    Passwords must be constructed to meet the following require-
    ments:
    *  Each password must have  at  least  six  characters.
    *  Each password must contain at least  one  lower-case
    alphabetic character, one upper-case alphabetic character,
    and at least one numeric or special character.  In this
    case,  "alphabetic"  refers  to  all upper or lower case
    letters. (These requirements ensure they do not use a 
    "word", i.e. a string that could be looked up in a
    dictionary, or their phone/SIN/etc. number -- two common
    choices).
    *  Each password must differ from the user's login name
    and the reverse of that login name.  For this comparison,
    an upper case letter and its corresponding lower case letter
    are equivalent.
    *  New passwords must differ from the old in  at  least
    three  positions.  For this comparison, an upper case
    letter and its corresponding lower  case  letter are
    equivalent.          

    Write a program that behaves as specified by this excerpt.

    Notes:

    -   The real `passwd` program, after validating the proposed new
        password, encrypts it and writes it to a file, but we're
        omitting that final step \... for now!
    -   In actual use the program would make a “system call” to get
        the current user's login name. Since we have not seen how to do
        this yet, your program will have to read in the login name.

    Here are a couple of sample outputs generated by running a solution
    program:

```plaintext
=============================================
Password Checker
---------------------------------------------
Enter the login name: ttopper
Enter your current password: sp33dKills
Enter new password: duckie
Confirm new password: duvkie
New passwords do not match!
Try again.
Enter new password: duckie
Confirm new password: duckie
Password must contain at least one upper case letter.
Password not acceptable.
Password not changed.
Done.

=============================================
Password Checker
---------------------------------------------
Enter the login name: ttopper
Enter your current password: sp33dKills
Enter new password: d1cT10nary 
Confirm new password: d1cT10nary
Password changed.
Done.
```

Not the friendliest exchanges in the world, but hopefully clear
enough.

## Logistics

-   Use the following naming scheme for your program files:
    `a`*assignment#*`p`*problem#*``yourname`.py` . So your first
    attempt at problem 1 on this assignment will be named `a5p1bob.py`
    and your solution for problem will be named `a5p2bob.py` (adjusted obviously to use your name) .

-   Please submit all your `.py` files to the Moodle dropbox.

     
